TITLE:      Silent Thoughts in The Dark
Name:       Ahmad Feroz, Sandesh Kumar and Hammad Maqdoom
TOPIC:      Computer Graphics Render Jam — HU Fall 2022
COPYRIGHT:  I SUBMIT TO THE STANDARD RENDER JAM COMPETITION COPYRIGHT
PNG FILE:   silent-thoughts.png
ZIP FILE:   silent-thoughts.zip

TOOLS USED:

            WebGl 2.0
            GL Matrix Library

Render Time:

            A few seconds

ANIMATION DURATION:

            Reversed every 60 seconds

IMAGE DESCRIPTION:

            A planet not so different from Alderaan is obliterated by the Death Star I's superlaser beam. The 
            aftermath is depicted in this image. The image shows a dark, desolate state, with the remains of 
            the planet. The hyperbolic "disk-like" particles depict the destroyed space station that would have
            surrounded the planet.

            As time passes (every 60s) the render zooms and out of the remains that have since turned into stars
            and debris that may be a source of concern for passing ships to avoid.

DESCRIPTION OF HOW THIS IMAGE WAS CREATED: 

            I feel that the inspiration behind the image is also important. I was stiiing on my laptop with VS Code 
            open and hoping for a good idea to come to me. I was listening to The Sound of Silence cover by Disturbed,
            when it occured to me that I could model a dark scene with a planet in the background.

            Now, I already had an image in my mind, so got to work immediately. I started off by trying once again to 
            segregate my JavaScript from the HTML and create a sort of class structure.

            From here, the first step was to model a dark, starfilled sky. I used a pointcloud method for this where I 
            simply generated a number of coordinates and then rendered them on screen using the gl.POINTS method.

            Now it was a little tricky getting the dispersion of the stars to look right — especially since I was still 
            only playing around in the x-y plane and hadn't yet seen the render in 3D. Once I added a rotation, however, 
            the scene brought to mind the destruction of Alderaan in Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back.

            I thought about adding a light source to simulate the Star System's sun, but felt that it would be a little 
            redundant as the stars were already bright enough from the heat of the explosion.